[IMP] inventory: costing chart (#10612)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/reporting/inventory_valuation_config.rst

           - -10 * $10
           - $20
         * - Receive 2 products for $9/unit
           - $10
           - 4
           - 2 * $10
           - $40

   .. tab:: Average Cost (AVCO)

      Calculates the valuation of a product based on the average cost of that product, divided by
      the total number of available stock on-hand. With this costing method, inventory valuation is
      *dynamic*, and constantly adjusts based on the purchase price of products.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1
         :stub-columns: 1

         * - Operation
           - Unit Cost
           - Qty On Hand
           - Incoming Value
           - Inventory Value
         * -
           - $0
           - 0
           -
           - $0
         * - Receive 8 products for $10/unit
           - $10
           - 8
           - 8 * $10
           - $80
         * - Receive 4 products for $16/unit
           - $12
           - 12
           - 4 * $16
           - $144
         * - Deliver 10 products
           - $12
           - 2
           - -10 * $12
           - $24
         * - Receive 2 products for $6/unit
           - $9
           - 4
           - 2 * $6
           - $36

>       .. spoiler:: How are Unit Cost and Inventory Value calculated at each step?

Reviewer: Spoiler formatting seems to break when inside a tab, lets pull the content out of the spoiler admonition :)

Also, the formatting on "unit cost" and "inventory value" can be removed.
```suggestion
      How are unit cost and inventory value calculated at each step?
```

>       .. spoiler:: How are Unit Cost and Inventory Value at each step calculated?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      .. spoiler:: How are Unit Cost and Inventory Value calculated at each step?
```

         - When receiving four products for $16 each:

           - **Inventory Value** is calculated by adding the previous inventory value with the

>              incoming value. So, with `$80 + (4 * $16)` = `$80 + $40` = `$120`.

Author: thank you for catching the math!!!!

>            - **Unit Cost** is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on hand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
           - **Unit Cost** is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on-hand.
```

>            - **Inventory Value** is calculated by adding the previous inventory value with the
>              incoming value. So, with `$80 + (4 * $16)` = `$80 + $64` = `$144`.
>            - **Unit Cost** is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on-hand.
>              So, `$144 / 12 = $12`.

Reviewer: Suggestions to use the :math: role to format the equations. And slightly simplify the sentence and math to a more direct single equation.
```suggestion
        - Inventory value is calculated by adding the previous inventory value with the incoming
          value: :math:`$80 + (4 * $16) = $144`.
        - Unit cost is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on-hand:
          :math:`$144 / 12 = $12`.
```

>              So, `$120 / 12 = $12`.

Reviewer 2: 120/12 = 10, not 12!

>          - When delivering ten products, the average **Unit Cost** is used to calculate the
>            **Inventory Value**, regardless of the purchase price of the product. Therefore,
>            inventory value is `$144 + (-10 * $12)` = `$144 - $120` = `$24`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - When delivering ten products, the average unit cost is used to calculate the inventory
        value, regardless of the purchase price of the product. Therefore, inventory value is
        :math:`$144 + (-10 * $12) = $24`.
```

         - Receive two products for $6 each:

>            - **Inventory Value**: `$24 + (2 * $6)` = `$24 + $12` = `$36`
>            - **Unit Cost**: `$36 / 4 = $9`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Inventory value: :math:`$24 + (2 * $6) = $36`
        - Unit cost: :math:`$36 / 4 = $9`
```

      .. note::
         When choosing :guilabel:`Average Cost (AVCO)` as the :guilabel:`Costing Method`, changing

>          the numerical value in the :guilabel:`Cost` field for products in the respective product

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         the numerical value in the *Cost* field for products in the respective product
```
opting for italics here because, since the reader/user is on a Product Category form, and the 'Cost' field on a product form isn't currently being shown on the UI/screen at this moment.

         category creates a new record in the *Inventory Valuation* report to adjust the value of

>          the product. The :guilabel:`Cost` amount will then automatically update based on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         the product. The *Cost* amount is then automatically updated, based on the
```

>          the numerical value in the *Cost* field for products in the respective product
>          category creates a new record in the *Inventory Valuation* report to adjust the value of
>          the product. The *Cost* amount is then automatically updated, based on the
>          average purchase price of both the inventory on-hand and the costs accumulated from validated
>          purchase orders.

Reviewer: Early line breaks
```suggestion
         the numerical value in the *Cost* field for products in the respective product category
         creates a new record in the *Inventory Valuation* report to adjust the value of the
         product. The *Cost* amount is then automatically updated, based on the average purchase
         price of both the inventory on-hand and the costs accumulated from validated purchase
         orders.
```

>          average purchase price both of inventory on hand and the costs accumulated from validated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         average purchase price of both the inventory on-hand and the costs accumulated from validated
```

   .. tab:: First In First Out (FIFO)

>       Tracks the costs of incoming and outgoing items in real-time and uses the real price of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Tracks the costs of incoming and outgoing items in real-time, and uses the real price of the
```
OPTIONAL: added comma for enhanced sentence pacing/flow

      products to change the valuation. The oldest purchase price is used as the cost for the next

>       good sold until an entire lot of that product is sold. When the next inventory lot moves up in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      good sold, until an entire lot of that product is sold. When the next inventory lot moves up in
```
OPTIONAL: added comma for enhanced sentence pacing/flow

      the queue, an updated product cost is used based on the valuation of that specific lot.

      This method is arguably the most accurate inventory valuation method for a variety of reasons,

>       but, it is highly sensitive to input data and human error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      but it is highly sensitive to input data and human error.
```

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1
         :stub-columns: 1

         * - Operation
           - Unit Cost
           - Qty On Hand
           - Incoming Value
           - Inventory Value
         * -
           - $0
           - 0
           -
           - $0
         * - Receive 8 products for $10/unit
           - $10
           - 8
           - 8 * $10
           - $80
         * - Receive 4 products for $16/unit
           - $12
           - 12
           - 4 * $16
           - $144
         * - Deliver 10 products
           - $16
           - 2

>            - | -10 * $12

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           - | -8 * $10
```

             | -2 * $16
           - $32
         * - Receive 2 products for $6/unit
           - $11
           - 4
           - 2 * $6
           - $44

>       .. spoiler:: How are Unit Cost and Inventory Value calculated at each step?

Reviewer: Remove spoiler from inside tab :)
```suggestion
      How are unit cost and inventory value calculated at each step?
```

>          - When receiving four products for $16 each (process is similar to the average costing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         - When receiving four products for $16 each (process is similar to the :guilabel:`Average Cost (AVCO)`
```

           method in this step):

>            - **Inventory Value** is calculated by adding the previous inventory value with the

Reviewer 2: - **Inventory Value** is calculated by adding the previous inventory value to the

             incoming value. So, with `$80 + (4 * $16)` = `$80 + $64` = `$144`.

>            - **Unit Cost** is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on hand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
           - **Unit Cost** is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on-hand.
```

>          - When receiving four products for $16 each (process is similar to the :guilabel:`Average Cost (AVCO)`
>            method in this step):
> 
>            - **Inventory Value** is calculated by adding the previous inventory value to the
>              incoming value. So, with `$80 + (4 * $16)` = `$80 + $64` = `$144`.
>            - **Unit Cost** is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on-hand.
>              So, `$144 / 12 = $12`.

Reviewer: Consider removing "process is similar to the Average Cost (AVCO)" just to keep these examples more skimmable.
```suggestion
      - When receiving four products for $16 each:

        - Inventory value is calculated by adding the previous inventory value to the incoming
          value: :math:`$80 + (4 * $16) = $144`.
        - Unit cost is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the quantity on-hand:
          :math:`$144 / 12 = $12`.
```

>              So, `$120 / 12 = $12`.

Reviewer 2: I think, with fixed math (see my previous comment), this equation should now read "$140/12 = $12"

         - When delivering ten products, eight units were purchased for $10, and two units were
           purchased for $16.

>            - First, the **Incoming Value** is calculated by multiplying the on-hand quantity with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           - First, the **Incoming Value** is calculated by multiplying the on-hand quantity by
```

             the purchased price. `(-8 * $10) + (-2 * $16)` = `-80 + -32` = `-112`.
           - With the incoming value, the **Inventory Value** is calculated by subtracting the

>              previous inventory value with the incoming value: `$144 - $112 = $32`.

Reviewer 2: Value "$144" in the equation ($144 - $112 = $32) should be changed to $120, because that is the previous Inventory Value. Then, ($120 - $112) = 8.
You might want to reword "is calculated by subtracting the previous inventory value with the incoming value" for clarity! For example, "is calculated by adding the Incoming Value and the Inventory Value" because in this case that would be ($120 - $112) since the Incoming Value (-112) is negative.

Author: Thank you catching this!

>            - With the incoming value, the **Inventory Value** is calculated by subtracting the
>              previous inventory value with the incoming value: `$144 - $112 = $32`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           - The **Inventory Value** is calculated by subtracting the incoming value
             from the previous inventory value: `$144 - $112 = $32`.
```

>            - First, the **Incoming Value** is calculated by multiplying the on-hand quantity by the
>              purchased price. `(-8 * $10) + (-2 * $16)` = `-80 + -32` = `-112`.
>            - The **Inventory Value** is calculated by subtracting the incoming value from the
>              previous inventory value: `$144 - $112 = $32`.
>            - **Unit Cost**: inventory value / remaining quantity = `$32 / 2` = `$16`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - First, the incoming value is calculated by multiplying the on-hand quantity by the
          purchased price: :math:`(-8 * $10) + (-2 * $16) = -112`.
        - The inventory value is calculated by subtracting the incoming value from the previous
          inventory value: :math:`$144 - $112 = $32`.
        - Unit cost is calculated by dividing the inventory value by the remaining quantity:
          :math:`$32 / 2 = $16`.
```

>          - When receiving two products for $6, **Inventory Value** is `$32 + $12 = $44`. **Unit
>            Cost** is `$44 / 4 = $11`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - When receiving two products for $6, inventory value is :math:`$32 + $12 = $44`. Unit cost is
        :math:`$44 / 4 = $11`.
```
